# mlops-homework-05

## 📝 Description

This project develops an MLOps pipeline using `Evidently` to monitor key performance metrics of a machine learning model, including prediction drift and median fare amount. It employs `Prefect` for workflow orchestration, managing tasks such as database updates and metric calculations. The results are visualized through `Grafana`, providing interactive dashboards for real-time analysis, all supported by a Docker Compose environment that orchestrates the interplay between PostgreSQL, Adminer, and Grafana to handle data storage, management, and visualization.

## 🔧 Instructions to Run

### 1. Run the Jupyter notebook: 'baseline_model_nyc_taxi_data.ipynb'

This notebook develops a regression model using the `pandas` library for data manipulation, `scikit-learn` for model building and evaluation, with `matplotlib` and `seaborn` for visualization. It processes New York City taxi data to predict trip durations or fare amounts through data cleaning, exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, model training, and validation. The notebook integrates `Evidently` to monitor performance drift, number of drifted columns, missing values, and regression performance quality, as well as tracking the median fare amount.
  
### 2. Build the Docker Image

```bash
docker compose up --build
```
### 3. Run the monitoring script

```bash
python evidently_metrics.py
```

This Python script utilizes the `Evidently` library to monitor key model performance metrics such as prediction drift, number of drifted columns, and median fare amount. It employs `Prefect` for orchestrating the pipeline to manage tasks like database preparation and daily metric calculations effectively. The metrics generated by Evidently are stored in a `PostgreSQL` database, managed via the psycopg library for SQL operations. For visualization, `Grafana` is integrated, providing interactive dashboards for real-time monitoring and analysis, all facilitated through a Docker Compose setup that includes services for PostgreSQL, Adminer, and Grafana, ensuring seamless interaction and data flow between these components.

### 4. Open the Grafana UI to View the Dashboards

Navigate to http://localhost:3000/
